.\" intel_lpmd (8) manual page
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public Licence along
.\" with this manual; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2012 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH intel_lpmd "8" "08 Apr 2026"

.SH NAME
intel_lpmd \- Intel Energy Optimizer (LPMD) Daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B intel_lpmd
.RI " [ " OPTIONS " ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B intel_lpmd
is a Linux daemon used for energy optimization on Intel hybrid systems. This
daemon uses a configuration file called "intel_lpmd_config.xml". The other
installed configuration files are to be treated as best practice templates. The
main configuration file should be edited by the user to enable LPMD and it's
desired functionalities. Based on the configuration and system utilization LPMD
can:

- choose the best set of CPU cores to enable for a given moment in time

- choose the best EPP (energe performance preference) and EPB (energy
performance bias) value

- pick the best SoC power slider settings

There is a control utility distributed along with this daemon. It's called
"intel_lpmd_control" and it can be used to change modes in the running LPMD
instance.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h --help
Print the help message

.TP
.B --version
Print intel_lpmd version and exit

.TP
.B --no-daemon
Don't run as a daemon: Default is daemon mode

.TP
.B --systemd
Assume daemon is started by systemd

.TP
.B --loglevel=
log severity: can be info or debug

.TP
.B --dbus-enable
Enable Dbus server to receive requests via Dbus

.TP
.B --ignore-platform-check
Ignore platform check

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B intel_lpmd --loglevel=info --no-daemon --dbus-enable
Run intel_lpmd with log directed to stdout

.TP
.B intel_lpmd --systemd --dbus-enable
Run intel_lpmd as a service with logs directed to system journal

.TP
.B sudo systemctl enable intel_lpmd.service --now
Enable and run intel_lpmd as a systemd service that's persistent after system
reboot.

.SH SEE ALSO
intel_lpmd_config.xml(5), intel_lpmd_control(8)

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Zhang Rui <rui.zhang@intel.com>

