.\" intel_lpmd_config.xml(5) manual page
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public Licence along
.\" with this manual; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2012 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH intel_lpmd_config.xml "5" "1 Jun 2023"

.SH NAME
intel_lpmd_config.xml \- Configuration file for intel_lpmd
.SH SYNOPSIS
$(TDCONFDIR)/etc/intel_lpmd/intel_lpmd_config.xml

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B intel_lpmd_config.xml
is a configuration file for the Intel Low Power Mode Daemon.
It is used to describe the lp_mode_cpus to use in Low Power Mode,
as well as the way to restrict work to those CPUs. It also describes
if and how the HFI monitor and utilization monitor works. The location
of this file depends on the configuration option used during build time.
.PP
.B lp_mode_cpus
is a set of active CPUs when system is in Low Power Mode.
This usually equals a group of most power efficient CPUs on a platform to
achieve best power saving. When not specified, intel_lpmd tool can detect this
automatically. E.g. it uses an E-core Module on Intel Alderlake platform, and
it uses the Low Power E-cores on SoC Die on Intel Meteorlake platform.
.PP
.B Mode
specifies the way to migrate the tasks to the lp_mode_cpus.
.IP \(bu 2
Mode 0: set cpuset to the lp_mode_cpus for systemd. All tasks created by
systemd will run on these CPUs only. This is supported for cgroup v2 based
systemd only.
.IP \(bu 2
Mode 1: Isolate the non-lp_mode_cpus so that tasks are scheduled to the
lp_mode_cpus only.
.IP \(bu 2
Mode 2: Force idle injection to the non-lp_mode_cpus and leverage the
scheduler to schedule the other tasks to the lp_mode_cpus.
.PP
.B PerformanceDef
specifies the default behavior when power setting is set to Performance.
.IP \(bu 2
-1 : Never enter Low Power Mode.
.IP \(bu 2
0 : opportunistic Low Power Mode enter/exit based on HFI/Utilization request.
.IP \(bu 2
1 : Always stay in Low Power Mode.
.PP
.B BalancedDef
specifies the default behavior when power setting is set to Balanced.
.PP
.B PowersaverDef
specifies the default behavior when power setting is set to Power saver.
.PP
.B HfiLpmEnable
specifies if the HFI monitor can capture the HFI hints for Low Power Mode.
.PP
.B HfiSuvEnable
specifies if the HFI monitor can capture the HFI hints for survivability mode.
.PP
.B WLTHintEnable
Enable use of hardware Workload type hints.
.PP
.B util_entry_threshold
specifies the system utilization threshold for entering Low Power Mode.
The system workload is considered to fit the lp_mode_cpus capacity when system
utilization is under this threshold.
Setting to 0 or leaving this empty disables the utilization monitor.

.PP
.B util_exit_threshold
specifies the CPU utilization threshold for exiting Low Power Mode.
The system workload is considered to not fit the lp_mode_cpus capacity when
the utilization of the busiest lp_mode_cpus is above this threshold.
Setting to 0 or leaving this empty disables the utilization monitor.
.PP
.B EntryDelayMS
specifies the sample interval used by the utilization Monitor when system
wants to enter Low Power Mode based on system utilization.
Setting to 0 or leaving this empty will cause the utilization Monitor to use
the default interval, 1000 milli seconds.
.PP
.B ExitDelayMS
specifies the sample interval used by the utilization Monitor when system
wants to exit Low Power Mode based on CPU utilization.
Setting to 0 or leaving this empty will cause the utilization Monitor to use
the adaptive value. The adaptive interval is based on CPU utilization.
The busier the CPU is, the shorter interval the utilization monitor uses.
.PP
.B EntryHystMS
specifies a hysteresis threshold when system is in Low Power Mode.
If set, when the previous average time stayed in Low Power Mode is lower than
this value, the current enter Low Power Mode request will be ignored because
it is expected that the system will exit Low Power Mode soon.
Setting to 0 or leaving this empty disables this hysteresis algorithm.
.PP
.B ExitHystMS
specifies a hysteresis threshold when system is not in Low Power Mode.
If set, when the previous average time stayed out of Low-Power-Mode is lower
than this value, the current exit Low Power Mode request will be ignored
because it is expected that the system will enter Low Power Mode soon.
Setting to 0 or leaving this empty disables this hysteresis algorithm.
.PP
.B IgnoreITMT
Avoid changing scheduler ITMT flag. This means that during transition to
low power mode, ITMT flag is not changed. This reduces latency during
switching. This flag is not used when configuration uses "State" based
configuration, where this flag can be defined per state.
.PP
.B States
Allows to define per platform low power states. Each state defines
has an entry condition and set of parameters to use.

.SH State Definition
There can be multiple State configuration can be present. Each
configuration is valid for a platform. A State header defines parameters,
which are used to match a platform.
.B CPUFamily
CPU generation to match.
.PP
.B CPUModel
CPU model to match.
.PP
.B CPUConfig
Define a configuration of CPUs and TDP to match different skews for the
same CPU model and family. CPU configuration string format is:
xPyEzL-tdpW. For example: 12P8E2L-28W, defines a platform with 6 P-cores
with hyper threading enabled, 8 E cores, 2 LPE cores and the TDP is 28W.
This configuration allows wildcard "*" to match any combination.

.SH Per State Definition
Each "State" defines entry criteria and parameters to use.
.B ID
A unique ID for the state.
.PP
.B Name
A name for the state.
.PP
.B EntrySystemLoadThres
System Entry load threshold in percent. System utilization is different
based on the number of CPUs are active in a configuration. This value
is calculated from /proc/stat sysfs. To enter into this state, the
system utilization must be less or equal to this value.
.PP
.B EnterCPULoadThres
CPU Entry load threshold in percent. Per CPU utilization is also obtained
from /proc/stat. To enter into this state any active CPU utilization must
be less or equal to this value.
EnterCPULoadThres is checked before EntrySystemLoadThres to match a state.
.PP
.B WLTType
Workload type value to enter into this state. If this value is defined
then utilization based entry triggers are not used. To use this
WLTHintEnable must be enabled, so that hardware notifications are enabled.
.PP
.B ActiveCPUs
Active CPUs in this state. The list can be comma separated or use "-" for
a range. This is optional to have active CPUs in a state.
.PP
.B EPP
EPP to apply for this state. -1 to ignore.
.PP
.B EPB
EPB to apply for this state. -1 to ignore.
.PP
.B ITMTState
Set the state of ITMT flag. -1 to ignore.
.PP
.B IRQMigrate
Migrate IRQs to the active CPUs in this state. -1 to ignore.
.PP
.B MinPollInterval
Minimum polling interval in milli seconds.
.PP
.B MaxPollInterval
Maximum polling interval in milli seconds. This is optional,
if there is no maximum is desired.
.PP
.B PollIntervalIncrement
Polling interval increment in milli seconds. If this value
is -1, then polling increment is adaptive based on the utilization.


.SH FILE FORMAT
The configuration file format conforms to XML specifications.
.sp 1
.EX
<Configuration>
	<!--
		CPU format example: 1,2,4..6,8-10
	-->
	<lp_mode_cpus>Example CPUs</lp_mode_cpus>

	<!--
		Mode values
		0: Cgroup v2
		1: Cgroup v2 isolate
		2: CPU idle injection
	-->
	<Mode>0|1|2</Mode>

	<!--
		Default behavior when Performance power setting is used
		-1: force off. (Never enter Low Power Mode)
		 1: force on. (Always stay in Low Power Mode)
		 0: auto. (opportunistic Low Power Mode enter/exit)
	-->
	<PerformanceDef>-1|0|1</PerformanceDef>

	<!--
		Default behavior when Balanced power setting is used
		-1: force off. (Never enter Low Power Mode)
		 1: force on. (Always stay in Low Power Mode)
		 0: auto. (opportunistic Low Power Mode enter/exit)
	-->
	<BalancedDef>-1|0|1</BalancedDef>

	<!--
		Default behavior when Power saver setting is used
		-1: force off. (Never enter Low Power Mode)
		 1: force on. (Always stay in Low Power Mode)
		 0: auto. (opportunistic Low Power Mode enter/exit)
	-->
	<PowersaverDef>-1|0|1</PowersaverDef>

	<!--
		Use HFI LPM hints
		0 : No
		1 : Yes
	-->
	<HfiLpmEnable>0|1</HfiLpmEnable>

	<!--
		Use HFI SUV hints
		0 : No
		1 : Yes
	-->
	<HfiSuvEnable>0|1</HfiSuvEnable>

	<!--
		System utilization threshold to enter LP mode
		from 0 - 100
	-->
	<util_entry_threshold>Example threshold</util_entry_threshold>

	<!--
		System utilization threshold to exit LP mode
		from 0 - 100
	-->
	<util_exit_threshold>Example threshold</util_exit_threshold>

	<!--
		Entry delay. Minimum delay in non Low Power mode to
		enter LPM mode.
	-->
	<EntryDelayMS>Example delay</EntryDelayMS>

	<!--
		Exit delay. Minimum delay in Low Power mode to
		exit LPM mode.
	-->
	<ExitDelayMS>Example delay</ExitDelayMS>

	<!--
		Lowest hyst average in-LP-mode time in msec to enter LP mode
		0: to disable hyst support
	-->
	<EntryHystMS>Example hyst</EntryHystMS>

	<!--
		Lowest hyst average out-of-LP-mode time in msec to exit LP mode
		0: to disable hyst support
	-->
	<ExitHystMS>Example hyst</ExitHystMS>

	<!--
		EPP to use in Low Power Mode
		0-255: Valid EPP value to use in Low Power Mode
		   -1: Don't change EPP in Low Power Mode
	-->
	<lp_mode_epp>-1 | EPP value</lp_mode_epp>

</Configuration>

.EE
.SH EXAMPLE CONFIGURATIONS
.PP
.B Example 1:
This is the minimum configuration.
.IP \(bu 2
lp_mode_cpus: not set. Detects the lp_mode_cpus automatically.
.IP \(bu 2
Mode: 0. Use cgroup-v2 systemd for task migration.
.IP \(bu 2
HfiLpmEnable: 0. Ignore HFI Low Power mode hints.
.IP \(bu 2
HfiSuvEnable: 0. Ignore HFI Survivability mode hints. With both HfiLpmEnable and HfiSuvEnable cleared, the HFI monitor will be disabled.
.IP \(bu 2
util_entry_threshold: 0. Disable utilization monitor.
.IP \(bu 2
util_exit_threshold: 0. Disable utilization monitor.
.IP \(bu 2
EntryDelayMS: 0. Do not take effect when utilization monitor is disabled.
.IP \(bu 2
ExitDelayMS: 0. Do not take effect when utilization monitor is disabled.
.IP \(bu 2
EntryHystMS: 0. Do not take effect when utilization monitor is disabled.
.IP \(bu 2
ExitHystMS: 0. Do not take effect when utilization monitor is disabled.
.IP \(bu 2
lp_mode_epp: -1. Do not change EPP when entering Low Power Mode.

.sp 1
.EX
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<Configuration>
	<lp_mode_cpus></lp_mode_cpus>
	<Mode>0</Mode>
	<HfiLpmEnable>0</HfiLpmEnable>
	<HfiSuvEnable>0</HfiSuvEnable>
	<util_entry_threshold>0</util_entry_threshold>
	<util_exit_threshold>0</util_exit_threshold>
	<EntryDelayMS>0</EntryDelayMS>
	<ExitDelayMS>0</ExitDelayMS>
	<EntryHystMS>0</EntryHystMS>
	<ExitHystMS>0</ExitHystMS>
	<lp_mode_epp>-1</lp_mode_epp>
</Configuration>
.PP
.B Example 2:
This is the typical configuration. The utilization thresholds and delays may be different based on requirement.
.IP \(bu 2
lp_mode_cpus: not set. Detects the lp_mode_cpus automatically.
.IP \(bu 2
Mode: 0. Use cgroup-v2 systemd for task migration.
.IP \(bu 2
HfiLpmEnable: 1. Enter/Exit Low Power Mode based on HFI hints.
.IP \(bu 2
HfiSuvEnable: 1. Enter/Exit Survivability mode based on HFI hints.
.IP \(bu 2
util_entry_threshold: 5. Enter Low Power Mode when system utilization is lower than 5%.
.IP \(bu 2
util_exit_threshold: 95. Exit Low Power Mode when the utilization of any of the lp_mode_cpus is higher than 95%.
.IP \(bu 2
EntryDelayMS: 0. Resample every 1000ms when system is out of Low Power Mode.
.IP \(bu 2
ExitDelayMS: 0. Resample adaptively based on the utilization of lp_mode_cpus when system is in Low Power Mode.
.IP \(bu 2
EntryHystMS: 2000. Ignore the current Enter Low Power Mode request when the previous average time stayed in Low Power Mode is lower than 2000ms.
.IP \(bu 2
ExitHystMS: 3000. Ignore the current Exit Low Power Mode request when the previous average time stayed out of Low Power Mode is lower than 3000ms.
.IP \(bu 2
lp_mode_epp: -1. Do not change EPP when entering Low Power Mode.

.sp 1
.EX
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<Configuration>
	<lp_mode_cpus></lp_mode_cpus>
	<Mode>0</Mode>
	<HfiLpmEnable>1</HfiLpmEnable>
	<HfiSuvEnable>1</HfiSuvEnable>
	<util_entry_threshold>5</util_entry_threshold>
	<util_exit_threshold>95</util_exit_threshold>
	<EntryDelayMS>0</EntryDelayMS>
	<ExitDelayMS>0</ExitDelayMS>
	<EntryHystMS>2000</EntryHystMS>
	<ExitHystMS>3000</ExitHystMS>
	<lp_mode_epp>-1</lp_mode_epp>
</Configuration>
.EE
