.\" intel_lpmd_control (8) manual page
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public Licence along
.\" with this manual; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2025 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH intel_lpmd_control "8" "7 Mar 2025"

.SH NAME
intel_lpmd_control \- Control utility for the Intel Low Power Mode Daemon (LPMD)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B intel_lpmd_control
.RI " [ " OPTIONS " ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B intel_lpmd_control
is a command-line utility used to control the Intel Low Power Mode Daemon (LPMD). It allows users to enable, disable, or set the daemon to automatic mode based on system utilization.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B ON
Enables low power mode operation.
.TP
.B OFF
Disables low power mode operation.
.TP
.B AUTO
Enables low power mode operation in automatic mode, allowing system utilization to determine low power state activation.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B intel_lpmd_control ON
Turns on low power mode operation.
.TP
.B intel_lpmd_control OFF
Turns off low power mode operation.
.TP
.B intel_lpmd_control AUTO
Turns on low power mode operation in automatic mode.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B intel_lpmd(8)

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Deepak Sundar <deepak.sundar@intel.com>